-------------------
GLASS - 2.12.16
  Jimmy
  Preparing for your Ph.D. defense and submitting your thesis
-------------------


Thesis Corrections
-----
  OGAPS is mostly worried about formatting of abstract/introduction
  Issues with OGAPS template:
    Spacing issues with template (auto-generated list)
    aasmacros
    Use 3-part table instead of deluxetable (not supported)
      or use sample table formatting
    See GLASS webpage for improved template!
  Hold onto copyright permissions from submissions to journals

Thesis timing requirements are advisor-dependent (~2 weeks prior at least)
Solid thesis draft sent to committee before defense -
  then all forms can be completed at defense, no chasing down professors...
  (Passed your defense form, Approved thesis form, Copyright form)


Stay smart!
-----
  Mental health and physical health are important to maintain stress during crunch time.
  Try to maintain your physical activity, even if it's just at a reduced level.
  Mental health is just as important as physical health.
  If your mental anguish is getting to the point that it is interfering with your work,
    make an appointment to see a doctor at Beutel.
  They can recommend coping mechanisms and prescribe any necessary medications to help
    you manage the increased anxiety and depression you're likely to experience finishing
    your PhD.  Don't wait until it's too late, get help managing your symptoms early as
    the medication can take 2 or more weeks to reach full effect.

  Staying ahead of deadlines also helps to reduce stress - have a plan, work the plan!




Preparing for a Defense
-----

  Challenge: Out-Of-Dept. Committee Member, Dept. Members, other students all need to be 
    able to follow you talk (various levels of knowledge).

  If you're struggling to devise a format for your PhD defense slides, consider the
    following suggestion:
   Use the Introduction chapter of your dissertation to structure the introductory slides
     to your talk.
   Then pull the key figures from each of your published/submitted/in prep. papers to show
     your results.
   Finally, use the summary chapter of your dissertation to structure the final slides,
     and for the conclusion slide, put up a one sentence summary of each paper/project.

  Recommended not to use a laser pointer (disconnected from speaker)
  Video on How to Give a Talk (see link on GLASS page)
  Don't give a timed talk, give a complete, understandable talk
    (that being said don't talk for 20min or 2hrs)
  Lots of backup slides
    Info from paper appendices
    Any plots from papers not in slides
    Any questions from master's defense you didn't understand

  ~45 primary, 20 backup slides
  Schedule a meeting with each committee member ~1 month ahead of time to learn what
    their expectations are for your defense.

  If you don't know the answer to a question:
    Answer a different, related question
    Ask for clarification
    Use the board to work out your thoughts - professors may help you take smaller steps
      to the final conclusion
  Talk as long as possible about questions you know a lot about
  
 
Prelim
-----
  Write 3 page paper about what has been done, what you are doing, and plans for future
    work before prelim - provide to committee members
  OGS requires proposal re: prelim







